Author: Shreya Valaboju
Date: 1/31/2023

OVERVIEW OF PORTFOLIO 1

HOW TO EXECUTE:
    * If running on Pycharm IDE:
        - Edit Configurations and add relative path of input/data csv in the parameters
    * If running on terminal/command line:
        - Type in this format to execute python file: python main.py [insert relative path of data csv]
        - Ex: python main.py data/data.csv

DESCRIPTION:
    This program reads in a csv containing information about employees, such as their name, id, and phone number.
    The purpose of this program is to implement basic preprocessing functionality (as you would in NLP projects) and
    gain familiarity with programming in python. Those preprocessing methods include capitalization and standardization of phone
    numbers and ids to a specific format. If any field for an employee is invalid, preprocessing is done or the user is given
    a chance to correct that field, and then their information finally saved into a dictionary. At the end, the dictionary
    is fed into a pickle file. The pickle file is then read and each employee's information is printed.

EXTRA NOTES/ASSUMPTIONS:
    - input file is in the format of a csv with the fields (in-order): Last,First,Middle Initial,ID,Office phone
    - first line of input file is the csv field names
    - when the pickle file is generated at the end, a file named "emp_dict_file.p" will appear in your working directory. 
    - ensure that the correct relative path to the data.csv/input file is provided. 

Strengths/Weaknesses of Python for text processing:

    I noticed that a strength python had was a lot of functionality for basic preprocessing steps, such as fixing case, 
    using regex, and comparing strings/text. A weakness was that preprocessing text that originated from a csv
    required extra steps to extract the text into 1 entire string. An easier method would require an additional 
    module/library, such as pandas. Some more advanced preprocessing steps would require importing help or other
    libraries, a downside to just soley relying on python's tools. 

Lessons Learned/What was review:
    I have experience programming in python, so I am mostly familiar with the concepts in this program. For instance, I got to
    review classes/object oriented programming in python, specifically the syntax. Additionally, dictionaries and iterating through
    them was something I got to have a refresher on as well. A new concept I learned was about pickle files.
    I never used pickle files before, so I had to do a bit of research and look on the professor's class notes to understand this concept.

